Program 2 : Connecting to Data Source ÔÇô Connecting to Database, Different types of Tableau
Joins.

Dataset used: Tableau Joins File: Contains 3 sheets : Demographics, Salary, Job Title

1. Connecting to Excel Files in Tableau:
´éĚ Open Tableau and click on Connect in the left pane.
´éĚ Under To a File, choose Microsoft Excel.
´éĚ Browse and select your Excel file (Tableau Joins File.xlsx).
´éĚ Tableau will display the sheets from the Excel file in the Data Source tab.
´éĚ Drag the relevant sheets to the workspace.

2. Tableau Joins File.xlsx Dataset: has three Excel sheets
´éĚ Demographics:
´éĚ EmployeeID
´éĚ NameofEmployee
´éĚ EmployeeAge
´éĚ EmployeeGender
´éĚ Salary:´Çá
´éĚ EmployeeID
´éĚ EmployeeSalary
These sheets have a relationship based on the EmployeeID, and you can join them using this field.
Drag and drop Demographics table- Right click-select open- that allows you to do following types of
joins.
Now Drag and drop Salary table - That allows you to do join of your choice.

3. Types of Joins in Tableau:
Once both tables are in the Data Source tab, Tableau automatically suggests an inner join, but you can
modify the type of join depending on the scenario.

a. Inner Join:
´éĚ Description: Returns only records where there is a match in both tables.
´éĚ How to Create in Tableau:
´éĚ Drag Demographics and Salary sheets into the canvas.
´éĚ Tableau automatically detects the common field (EmployeeID). If not, manually select it.
´éĚ Choose Inner Join in the Join Type options.
´éĚ Result: You will see only employees whose employee id matches in both Demographics and
Salary table.

b. Left Join:´Çá
´éĚ Description: Returns all records from the left table (Demographics), and matched records from
the right table (salary). If thereÔÇÖs no match, NULL values are returned for fields from theright
table.
´éĚ How to Create in Tableau:
´éĚ In the join settings, select Left Join.
´éĚ Result: All employees will be returned, even if data missing in Salary. Salary information will
be NULL for those without a match.

c. Right Join:
´éĚ Description: Returns all records from the right table (Salary), and matched records from the left table
(Demographics). If thereÔÇÖs no match, NULL values are returned for fields from the left table.
´éĚ How to Create in Tableau:
´éĚ Select Right Join.
´éĚ Result: You will see all salary, even if they don't have employee id. Employee information will be
NULL for those salary with no matching employee id.

d. Full Outer Join:
´éĚ Description: Returns all records when there is a match in either the left (Demographics) or right (Job
Title) table. If thereÔÇÖs no match, NULL values are returned for the missing side.
´éĚ How to Create in Tableau:
´éĚ Select Full Outer Join.
´éĚ Result: You will see all employees and all salary, even if they donÔÇÖt have a match in the other
table. NULL values will appear where thereÔÇÖs no corresponding record.

4. Creating a Visualization Based on Joins:
After performing the joins, you can build different visualizations.
Press on Sheet 1:
For example:
´éĚ Bar Chart: Number of employees and theirsalary.
´éĚ Drag NameofEmployee to Columns.
´éĚ Drag EmployeeSalary to Rows.´Çá
´éĚ
This chart will display the number of employees and their salary based on the type of
´éĚ join.Sort it in decending
´éĚ Drag EmployeeSalary to Marks - Select color Color, Label

