Program 7: Creating Reports & Visualizations- Different types of charts, Formattingcharts
with Title, Colors

17 Most Common Charts available in Power BI:
● Bar Chart
● Line Chart
● Scatterplot
● Sparkline
● Pie Chart
● Gauge
● Waterfall Chart
● Funnel Chart
● Heat Map / Matrix
● Histogram
● Box Plot
● Maps
● Tables
● Indicators
● Area Chart
● Radar or Spider Chart
● Tree Map

Open Power BI Desktop
● Click on Get data in ribbon pane
● Click on Excel worksheet option
Click on Transform Data button
Power Query Editor window will open
We have to perform some transformation on this table
 Select row 1 and click on Use first row as header

Then, we have to create new column for attrition count. For this, select attrition column
 click on Add Column  new window will open then add details as follows. Once you
are done with this, attrition count column will be added as a last row of the table
 Change the datatype of this column to whole number
Click on Close & Apply.
You will be back on canvas area with table loaded in Data Pane (in right side).

We will start with KPI Chart
 A Key Performance Indicator (KPI) is a visual cue that communicates the amount of
progress made toward a measurable goal

Now format this particular visual with title, size, colour.
1. Click on “Format your visual” in Visualization Pane
2. Go to General tab
a. click on Title  type “Overall Employees” in Text box, Horizontal alignment
and colour of your choice
b. expand effects  OFF the background of KPI chart
c. Effects  ON visual border  change the color and 20 rounded corners
3. Now, go to Visual tab  OFF the category label
4. In visual tab, callout value  change the font color

Kindly Note: If you want same format for all visuals, complete the formatting with one
of the visual, click on format painter and click on the visual for which you want the
formatting. Little bit formatting will be required as properties for each visual will be
different
Select Pie Chart.
Now apply same steps for creating STACKED COLUMN CHART.
A column chart, commonly referred to as a vertical bar graph, is a visual tool utilized to
display and compare numerical data across different categories. Each column within the
chart corresponds to a specific category, with the height of the column proportionally
representing the associated value.

Once sort age column is created change the datatype of column if its not in whole
number.Click on “Close & Apply
Now, on canvas, in data pane  select CP_age_band  click on sort by column  select
newly created column sort age and now
click on visual and follow the steps, Finally, output will be as follows:
Finally, output will be as follows:
Now apply same steps for creating MATRIX.
The matrix visual is a type of table visual that supports a stepped layout. A table supports two
dimensions, but a matrix makes it easier to display data meaningfully across multiple dimensions.
Often, report designers include matrixes in reports and dashboards to allow users to select one or
more element (rows, columns, cells) in the matrix to cross-highlight other visuals on a report
page.
Format the row header & column header  text color & background color
Also, format the Row grand total & column grand total

Now apply same steps for creating Stacked Bar Chart.

Now apply same steps for creating Donut.
A doughnut chart is similar to a pie chart in that it shows the relationship of parts to a
whole. The only difference is that the center is blank and allows space for a label or
icon.
Doughnut charts work best when you use them to compare a particular section to the
whole, rather than comparing individual sections with each other.

Slicers: A slicer is a standalone chart that can be used to filter the other visuals on the
page. Slicers come in many different formats (category, range, date, etc.) and can be
formatted to allow selection of only one, many, or all of the available values.
Slicers are a great choice to:
 Display commonly used or important filters on the report canvas for easier access.
 Make it easier to see the current filtered state without having to open a drop-down
list.
 Filter by columns that are unneeded and hidden in the data tables.
 Create more focused reports by putting slicers next to important visuals.
